this story would not be so surprising if
we were talking about a gang of
communists it would not be so surprised
neo-nazis but we're here talking about a
bunch of predominantly fruitarian
hippies we're talking about a bunch of
vegans who are supposedly going to save
the planet for preaching compassion
ecology and all the rest of it and here
i am in an alleyway facing down two guys
who have orders from their cult leader
to kick my ass i think it would be
reassuring to imagine that these
eccentrics i was meeting in this
alleyway in chiang mai that the whole
gang of them the various uh cast and
crew surrounding freely and durianrider
at that time that they were somehow
wildly eccentric that they were so
different from you and i are ourselves
but they're not
they're dreadfully dismal normal people
and that's what makes it really scary
that's what makes it really haunting
is recognizing that
normal people
become communists normal people
become neo-nazis normal people become
vegan yes
but then they go on to disappoint you or
even horrify you when they become
ex-vegan become pro-carnivore become
advocates for eating raw meat raw butter
you name it
what makes the story meaningful
ultimately
is that these aren't
monsters
they're dismally
normal people
[Music]
what could be less interesting than a
story about a fist fight in an alleyway
in chiang mai thailand in 2016.
how about a story about a fistfight in
an alleyway
that never quite happened a fistfight
that could have happened but somehow the
puzzle pieces didn't quite fit together
was talking to this other youtuber ethie
and he really insisted to me that i
ought to tell this story that i want to
make a youtube video about it at least
so that he can take a clip of it and put
it on his own channel i said what do you
what do you really find so interesting
about this
he said that he thought it was kind of
spooky and kind of
haunting
so
here we are as we come up on uh
halloween of 2021 and i suppose this is
my my halloween story uh to share with
you what what do i find interesting
about this what do i find spooky or
haunting about this story
in looking back at the year 2016 and the
ungodly events that took place in chiang
mai
you know the whole vegan movement
came to a crossroads and made a series
of faithful decisions the movement as
such
took on
new directions
and individual people within that
movement made decisions and took on new
directions that changed their lives
forever you know who was there yeah i
was there durianrider was there freely
was there
paul beshear
right
joey carbstrong
was there get into the list and think
about how their lives changed
in the months immediately thereafter as
my confrontation with durianrider
and
the divorce between durianrider and
freelee brought on a new wave of
skepticism and frankly recrimination
within the movement
durianrider had made it very clear on
facebook on youtube on every form of
social media he had at his disposal
including sending out emails to his
minions and followers he had made it
very clear
that i was to be hunted down and beaten
up
in the streets of chiang mai and he told
me this directly he sent messages to me
directly saying that there were roving
gangs of his followers who knew my
address who would find me and who would
in the parlance of our times kick my ass
that morning
i woke up and looked out the window i
had jet lag my sleep cycle was all
screwed up so it was very very early in
the morning
and when i looked out the window of my
apartment i had a window that looked
into the hallway not at the outset but
the hallway within the apartment
standing right there at my door
was a guy dressed head to toe
in
skin tight
green
long distance biking jersey material you
know
those zip up jackets cyclists wear those
those funny shorts
and you know i didn't feel scared
i didn't feel angry i wake up you know
you're still a little bit girl you're
just a little bit asleep you look out
you see this guy
standing right in front of my door and
you think
oh
so it wasn't just [ __ ] you know so
okay so we're really gonna do this okay
so they found where i live they
they came to my door and you know
there was a sense of relief like all
this isn't for nothing it isn't just
smoke without fire okay it's really
going down and then you know there was
that sound
and the
the elevator doors opened and this guy
got in and went down and left it was
that that was a complete coincidence the
guy wasn't wasn't even vegan you know he
was just wearing the kind of outfit that
the vegan followers of dirty writer
already happened to be in the hallway of
my apartment building so it didn't
happen at that time but i did have about
four face-to-face confrontations with
durianrider followers who are at varying
degrees
of expecting to attempt to kick my ass
or for me to try to kick their ass in
self-defense that they thought some kind
of fist fight was was gonna eventuate
each of those stories was very different
one of those guys
he he had been named by durianrider i
had been told when during other people
oh that this guy in particular was gonna
hunt me down and kick my ass and beat me
up many of his promises just vaguely
alluded to him having gangs of followers
he had so many devotees and followers in
chiang mai who would find but this guy
had been named in specific
and i was actually in a shopping mall in
chiang mai and i walked up on him
completely self-confidently
just walked around oh hey you know like
you know i think the first thing i said
was something like are you going to
pretend you don't know who i am you're
going to pretend you don't see me
you know like hey like i know who you
are you know who i am you know
you gonna you're gonna make something
happen or not and that guy i mean right
away he was just like oh look look man i
want you to know i mean durianrider said
that stuff i'm not i'm not gonna try to
beat you up i'm not gonna try to kick
your ass
and we had a very memorable conversation
and you know like so many people who are
mentioned or alluded to in this story
within one year that guy's whole life
had changed
uh that guy even that guy he stayed in
touch with me he sent me messages as he
became more and more disillusioned with
durianrider he found out the extent to
which that whole movement was based on
like a sand castle made out of lies
and you know his life had to take on a
new direction you know as he lost
the sense of hope and motivation that
came from this direction this commitment
to this particular part of the vegan
movement yeah it was uh it was much more
his personal tragedy than it was mine
my situation in this alleyway with
walking up on two guys one of whom was
the notorious
jack green most of thailand and
certainly the city of chiang mai itself
is made up of
narrow alleyways and this was an
alleyway in broad daylight in the
tropics so it's a very it's a brightly
lit alleyway it's not dark or inherently
dangerous but there just isn't that much
space so i'm walking down this alleyway
and i can see them
a long way ahead of me on the side of
the road at least one of them had his
bike there you know they both have you
know bicycles and bike helmets i think
one of them the bike is chained one of
them has the bike in front of them and
they're standing there having a
conversation that's why they don't see
me coming for nearly as long as i see
them so from their perspective all of a
sudden whoa here's six foot three two
hundred and twenty ten pound isil mazard
right on top of us and look
what's going through your mind at that
point
you know
am i going to be friendly to these guys
am i going to be nice to these guys am i
going to walk up on them and say hey
i know who you are you know who i am
is this going down or what you don't
want to instigate something if it's not
going to happen anyway
but if it is going to happen if it's not
all smoke without fire if durianrider is
being sincere and saying he has gangs of
his followers trying to hunt me down and
kick my ass these two particular guys
they would be exactly the guys to do it
because they were at that time 100
percent devoted during writer called
flunkies
and again this was a crossroads in their
lives
so soon thereafter everything changed
both of these guys became completely
disillusioned with durham writer became
completely disillusioned with the
movement they took on new directions not
just in their youtube channels but in
their lives and both of them stayed in
touch with me both of them talked to me
several times after the event
uh again it turned out to be much more
their personal tragedy than it was mine
anyway i walk up to these two guys they
had just been eating lunch with the
followers of durianrider they had been
going out to dinner with doreen ryder
and freely and riding their bikes to the
top of the mountain and attending the
lecturers from durianrider and freely
some of which were directly denouncing
me they were absolutely in the hot house
of followers who were receiving those
facebook messages and watching those
youtube videos as they came out there's
absolutely no way they could have been
unaware of
the conflict that was boiling over
between myself and theory writer which
fundamentally was about the fact that i
was a rival leader in the vegan movement
that it was a challenge's authority and
while i was there there were a whole lot
of vegans who reached out to me as a
kind of touchstone of authenticity as
someone who both symbolized and actually
was
an alternative to the style and
substance of vegan activism offered by
dorian ryder and freely and all those
people their lives changed so much you
know that year or within a few months of
that event i met one woman
who became the lesbian girlfriend of
henia yes henya mania they've now long
since broken up but i forget they were
together for a year or year and a half
or something each of these people was
following their own peculiar fate on a
winding winding road leading off each
one in a in a different direction but
there were people there who were happy
to see me and yeah there were people
there who were aware that there were
orders from doreen ryder to kick my ass
and these two guys in this alleyway at
that time i knew which one they were
so look i'm not that big
but i'm bigger than these guys there's
two of them there's one of me i'm six
foot three 220 pounds i'm doing push-ups
and lifting weights every day i am
prepared in every way mentally and
physically for this conflict if it's
gonna happen
and they don't see me coming whereas i
do see them in the distance so i come up
to them and i basically say look
[Laughter]
and they respond by playing dumb they
very nervously insisted that they had no
idea what dorian ryder had been saying
about me they hadn't seen any of those
videos or gotten any of those facebook
message they they behaved as if they
were hearing it from me for the first
time that durianrider had sent the word
out for guys exactly like them to find
me
beat me up and possibly drag me away to
durianrider's lair i suppose to be
judged by him that there is this open
order out for me to be to be beaten down
now as i said in the only interview with
a journalist i ever gave on this topic
this story would not be so surprising if
we were talking about a gang of
communists it would not be so surprised
neo-nazis but we're here talking about a
bunch of predominantly fruitarian
hippies we're talking about a bunch of
vegans who are supposedly going to save
the planet who are preaching compassion
ecology and all the rest of it and here
i am in an alley way facing down two
guys who have orders from their cult
leader to kick my ass
you know these guys these guys didn't
say it
the other guy i alluded to earlier who
met me one-on-one in that shopping mall
one of the first things he said to me
was
whoa
you're a lot bigger than i was expecting
[Laughter]
thanks thanks for your cancer
he also he also asked me uh uh when he
was sitting he asked me how much i could
bench press i remember it was part of
the conversation and and in this
conversation the conversation in the
alleyway i didn't bring it up one of the
two guys he's quite a small slender guy
uh he decided to tell me that he was a
kung fu enthusiast he's like you know
i'm not really into long distance
cycling i was like oh really
he's like oh yeah yeah he's into
he's into kung fu
kung fu brazilian jiu jitsu mixed
martial one of those are all of the
above that he was a he was a martial
arts guy
well
you missed your chance to show me rather
than tell me homie
the tragedy of this is of course that
these people did have
good intentions
but they chose
bad leaders
jack green would go on to become an
incredibly notorious figure he went from
one extreme ideology the next
he became a neo-nazi by the strictest
definition imaginable making youtube
videos directly quoting and praising
adolf hitler a lot of these people you
can trace the tortuous trail of the
terrible decisions they made in their
life through chiang mai thailand and for
each and every one of them
it was a
major crossroads some of those people
became devourers of raw meat became
carnivores became ex-vegans who
denounced the vegan movements
others still just denounced the
leadership of freely and durianrider but
became
vegan leaders in their own right
but it's not just when you're away on
holiday it's not just when you're
attending a conference a party an event
it's not just in these momentous
occasions that are marked in advance on
your calendar and it's not just when
you're facing down the possibility of a
fist fight in an alleyway you know that
you're at an important moral crossroads
in your life you get to choose
ethically intellectually emotionally who
you're going to be and what kind of
person you're going to become the
problem with the vegan movement then
and the problem with the vegan movement
now
is not that we have too few vegans
it's that we have too many people who
are doing the right thing
for the wrong reasons
when you do the right thing for the
wrong reasons it never can last
people chose terrible leaders in the
vegan movement because they had terrible
motivations people were pursuing money
fame power respect sex people were
trying to get rich and famous on social
media and in that moment in 2016 that
possibility seemed more tantalizingly
close than ever before it seemed as if
you or you or you could be the next
freely could be the next durian writer
could be the next bonnie rebecca
and nobody really stopped to think
whether or not that would be a good
thing for themselves or whether or not
that'd be a good thing for the future of
veganism for the fate of the movement as
a whole you can see what happened to
izzy davis you can see what happened to
bonnie rebecca
and i guess conversely you can see what
happened to joey carbstrong
how many of those people are still just
doing the right thing because it's the
right thing to do
only the ones who in the first place
did the right thing for the right
reasons the people who didn't just
become vegan as part of this endless
pursuit
of wealth fame and glory why do we tell
stories about monsters
is it to make us feel scared
or is it to make us feel
safe because ultimately none of us know
any monsters
none of us see any monsters and i think
it would be reassuring to imagine that
these eccentrics i was meeting in this
alleyway in chiang mai that the whole
gang of them the various uh cast and
crew surrounding freely and durianrider
at that time that they were somehow
wildly eccentric that they were so
different from you and i are ourselves
but they're not
they're dreadfully dismal normal people
and that's what makes it really scary
that's what makes it really haunting
is recognizing that
normal people
become communists normal people
become neo-nazis normal people become
vegan yes
but then they go on to disappoint you or
even horrify you when they become
ex-vegan become pro-carnivore become
advocates for eating raw meat raw butter
you name it
what makes the story meaningful
ultimately
is that these aren't
monsters
they're dismally
normal people